>> Richard Feldman: Let's go through
part three, parsing HTTP requests.
So here we're gonna start by learning
how to define new functions in C,
spoiler alert, it's very similar to
defining main, just a different function.
We'll talk about doing some actual
iteration, so some looping,
copying memory, and
also the concept of read-only memory.
So we talked previously about how
we're gonna send a response back from
our server.
This is what the browser's gonna get.
This is what the browser's
going to send us.
This is gonna be an incoming HTTP request.
It's gonna look like this.
There's a string G-E-T slash blog.
If it's a request to the /blog URL,
HTTP/1.1 is just the protocol, and that's
gonna have a whole bunch of headers like
host and user agent and stuff like that.
Basically what we're gonna do is,
when we get slash blog,
we're just gonna translate that
into a path of a file to open.
So in this case, because this one
didn't end in like a file extension,
it doesn't have like A in it,
we're gonna assume, yeah,
that's basically means they want
blog slash index, dot, HTML.
That's the file we're gonna look for
on the file system.
So also, if it ends in a slash,
same thing.
We're just gonna be like, okay,
that's exactly the same thing.
Look for
inside the blog directory index.html.
So to do this, we're gonna start by
just basically defining the same basic
setup that we had at the end
of the previous section.
Except this time, instead of a response,
we're gonna make a request here.
And then we're gonna do some processing on
it to try to extract the relevant part of
this, namely the /blog.
So to do this, we're gonna write
a function called to_path,
which is going to receive
requests as an argument.
So as a reminder,
request here is gonna be the integer that
is the memory address of this string.
So we're gonna get the memory address of
this beginning of the string right here,
and I'm gonna use that to sort of go find
the part of it that is this actual, blog.
That's gona be the path Path to
the thing that we want to return.
And then finally,
we're going to print out the path.
Now, as we're going to see,
this is a little bit more complicated
in C than it would be in certain other
languages where writing a function
like two path very straightforward.
Gonna be a little bit less straightforward
the way we're going to do it.
Okay, so the first thing is, like,
in order to make a new function in C,
basically, instead of returning an int,
this.
This char star is going to sorry to
path is going to return a char star.
In other words, this is going to return
not the exit code of the program, but
rather the memory address of the actual
path, once we've finished extracting
the path from the request and adding
the index dot HTML to the end of it.
Now, in normalcy, if you do this, like
if you You just write this code exactly
as is,
you're giving it an error that says, hey,
you're trying to call this function
called to path before it was defined.
What's up with that?
So C basically has two
ways you can address this.
One is you can say, I want to forward
declare it, which is basically where you
write out just the type of the function
with a semicolon at the end,
above where you're
actually going to call it.
And this sort of lets see, know,
as it's like coming through and
processing everything.
It says, okay,
there is a function by this name.
Here's the type.
I see what it is.
Great.
When I'm calling it,
I know what its type is,
even though it hasn't been defined
in terms of its implementation yet.
And then later on, you can do it like
that, or you can just simplify things and
just move the function up and
define it before me and.
Again, this is one of those
1972 ergonomics kind of things.
So as an example of the type of string we
might pass in here, we might say input is,
do a string, get slash,
blog, HTTP, 1.1 and
what we want to end up with is
get rid of this initial thing,
which is the method, which will be like
your get, put post, delete one of those.
Get rid of that thing.
Also get rid of the leading slash here.
And then add slash index.html onto
the end of this instead of the HTTP
1.1 type stuff.
Again, remembering that these
are both addresses into memory.
One thing we can do here is we can say,
okay, well,
let's just make another index into memory,
another memory address called start,
which is going to initially be
the very beginning of this thing.
In other words, this address is going
to be the same as this address.
And what we want to do is we want
to move from that start address,
which is the very beginning of the string,
and
we want to just advance it
until we get to right here.
Because this is the point where we're
at the end of this, like, G, E, T, and
we're like, yeah, we're done parsing that.
So this thing could be a get,
it could be a post.
It could be a put.
We want to find this space.
Phase because that let us know that
we've moved past http verb and
we can now actually get to the thing
we care about which is the path.
So let's just write the logic to sort of
advance this start thing over from this
initial address to there.
Well, to do this, basically,
we can just write a while loop.
So we say, while (start[0] and
start back at 0 essentially means We're
treating this memory address
as essentially an array.
Bracket zero means, you know,
get me the first element of that array.
So essentially what this is saying is
take what's at this memory address,
give me the byte that's right
at this exact memory address,
and keep looping until we hit a space
at which point the loop will end.
And then at the end of the loop, we're
gonna do start equals start plus one.
Don't worry, we will change this to a for
loop later, [LAUGH] But for
now we're just gonna do it wild style.
And basically this is a way of saying,
okay,
I want to just move this address up one.
I'm just gonna take this actual integer,
because again, this is a memory address,
and just increment it.
Just move one slot at a time.
And as we're doing this, we're going to
effectively be going one character at
a time Until eventually we end up
with the character being space.
You can do as a shorthand instead
of start equals start plus one.
You can do start plus equals one.
And of course this being C, you can make
it even shorter and say start plus plus.
And if you're ever wondering,
this is where the name C++ comes from.
It's intended to be a sort of a joke of
like you take C and you increment it,
you know.
Rather than rather than
maybe getting a new version.
It's like, well, we just took it and
mutated it in place,
which is a very C like thing to do.
Okay, next thing we're gonna do is
we're gonna check to see if we have
ended the string.
So one of the things that's very important
when you're reading memory like this, is
to make sure that we don't sort of go off
the end of the diving board, so to speak.
And enter into a undefined territory.
So we need to make sure that as we are
reading these contents of memory that we
don't actually read past
the end of the string and
into other other other parts
of the program's memory.
So this is a manual way of doing that.
It's saying, basically, okay, as we're
going through and looking at these things.
Maybe we haven't found the space yet, but
maybe we did hit the end of the string,
which is this backslash zero.
In other words, a zero byte.
You could also just literally write
a zero there instead of putting
it in single quotes.
The single quote syntax is essentially
a way to convert like ASCII or
UTF-8 characters into the actual
like underlying numbers here.
So for the null.
That is to say, 0.
You can write it either way.
The compiler will accept either happily.
But the point here is that this is
basically checking for the edge case of,
what if we ran into the end of
the string before we found our space?
You can simplify this even further,
and this is also idiomatic C,
by saying not that.
Because the not, like the bang operator
in C, literally just says, like,
Is it double equals zero?
That's that's really all it's doing.
So there is no separate
concept of like true and
false as distinct from like zero and one.
Actually true is defined to be one,
but actually like something that's
false has to be zero, and truthy means
any, any number other than zero,
which is kind of where that original
concept of truthiness comes from.
And that's actually based on the hardware.
Hardware basically has
zero is special case,
then non zero is sort of
the other Boolean case.
All the non zeros are considered
equivalent to the hardware when it comes
to branching conditionals and stuff.
So basically we're saying, okay, did we
hit the end of the string prematurely?
If so, then we're going to early return,
breaking out of the loop All the way out
of the function and just return null.
So this constant null like, in all caps,
like here is basically a way of just
saying, like, return zero, except it's
like basically sort of a more semantic,
more idiot, idiomatic way to say I'm
returning a zero that I know is going to
be considered to be
a memory address later.
So null address basically just means.
Memory addresses are integers and memory.
This integer is zero, and you're just
really writing out NULL for the same
reason that you might write out true or
false instead of one or zero, which is
just to say, hey, I'm aware that this is
a memory address that I'm returning here.
By the way, C does allow you to
write it exactly like this, so
you might notice I did not
put curly braces here.
Those curly braces are optional in c
If you want, you can write an if and
then no curly braces right after it.
And it will just take the next
statement that you have and say,
that only applies to this conditional.
And then the thing after it
applies to something else.
Now, a problem with this is that it's
very easy to make the mistake especi.
Especially because code formatters
like prettier and stuff,
are not actually that
common in the c world.
What if you indent like this and you look
at this code and you're like, yeah, that's
all part of the conditional, but it's not
because there's no curly braces there.
So, this actually was the cause of
a pretty famous bug called Hardbleed,
basically what happened was, they traced
it back and tried to figure out how this,
Bug, which turned out to be a very
serious exploit happened, and
it actually came down to this,
where someone had written an if without
curly braces, but indented like this.
And it looked like these were
both part of the conditional, but
actually only the first one
was part of the conditional.
And that was the source of the book.
So the moral of the story is always put
curly braces around your conditional.
This is not worth saving
the extra characters.
So we're going to put those in there,
even though C doesn't require you to.
I mentioned this mainly so that if you see
in the while the C code that's doesn't
have the curly braces there, you
understand that like they're not required.
But as a matter of good practice,
I would always recommend putting them in.
Okay, now I mentioned earlier that we can
convert this while loop to a for loop, and
that's, this is what that looks like.
So for
loops essentially have three in green.
So the first one is basically
the initialization condition.
So this is what's gonna run at
the very beginning of the for loop.
So we're basically saying,
okay, I'm to take a start and
initialize it to be equal to rec.
So this is the same exact thing that we
were doing here in the while loop outside
the loop.
You can just do that as part of the for
loop.
And you can also, if you want,
move the char star.
Inside of there.
And then basically what this will do is
this will say that if I put it in here as
opposed to out here,
it's basically saying that start is only
going to be in scope inside this loop.
And if anybody outside the loop
tries to reference it,
that it's gonna give a compiler.
And then basically we have
the same condition in here,
like keep going until it.
It hits the space.
And then this is what we do on
each iteration of the loop once we
get to the end.
So this thing right here,
just des sugars to exactly the same
thing we had in the wild loop.
Same logic,
just a different way to write it.
C doesn't have a concept for each loop or
any other fancier for syntax than this.
It's really just like initialization
the condition to check at the end of each.
Iteration of the loop and or, sorry,
at the beginning of each iteration
of the loop, and then the operation to run
at the end of each iteration of the loop.
Okay, all right, so we started off with
our start thing, which we actually
are going to keep outside of the loop, so
that we can have it in scope later on.
Because the next thing
we want to do after we.
To get to right here is we want to say,
well, let's throw that space away.
Let's just advance past it.
So having start be explicitly outside the
loop means that we can then just do start
plus plus to say, okay,
we found the space, the loop exited, and
now we're just going to
skip over that space.
So now if we print out start right here,
what it's going to print is again, Again,
because start is a memory address.
It's gonna say, okay,
well that memory address is right here.
So, if we literally say printf start,
and then present S start,
what's gonna get printed out to the screen
is start and then slash blog [INAUDIBLE].
So it's this memory address.
And then print out everything until
we hit the, the null Terminator Now,
what we have right here is our goal,
sorry, our input is a GET and all that.
Let's say that we wanted to
end up with a goal of that.
What we could just say, look,
just overwrite it to 0.
Just take this as the input and just boom,
just set it to the null terminator.
And now when you print it out,
it's gonna be, yeah, Okay, no problem.
There's, an alternator.
Like we encountered it.
We're not gonna print out anything.
But that's not actually our goal, right?
What we actually wanna do is we wanna
end up with this thing right here.
So let's go ahead and
continue doing that right here in place.
So now we're gonna do another for loop,
where this time we are, starting off with,
end equals start.
So we've defined an additional
variable up here called end.
This is gonna be another memory address.
And now what we're trying to do
is we're trying to find out okay.
If this is the start of this
thing where is the end.
So the end is going to be basically where
this other space happens because these
are space separated.
So right now we're just trying to
isolate this slash blog right in here.
Okay so at first, what we're gonna do that
is we're gonna, so I'm basically saying,
like, okay, do exactly the same logic
in here that we did before, where,
we initialize end to be start, and then
we just keep going until we hit a space.
So these two loops are gonna be identical.
Just keep going until you hit a space,
with the added, like,
a little edge case of, and
by the way, if along the way.
We happen to encounter a null bite,
then just early return
from the entire function.
So that's what both of these are doing.
So this will end up with end being
initialized to this space right here.
So we had start, which found the first
space going through the loop.
We did start plus plus
to get to the slash and
then now we have gone
through the loop to get end.
Being right here where the other space is.
Now at this point, we're gonna say, okay,
I wanna ensure that there is a slash here
because you might've noticed if we get
slash blog without a slash at the end,
well, we still wanna include this
slash in order to make this path work.
So that's no big deal.
What we can do here is we can
say end bracket negative one.
And what this means is.
Take this memory address,
subtract one element from it.
So subtract one byte from it.
So in other words, if end is right here,
we're going to subtract one and
get to that G right there, and
basically say, if that is a slash.
In other words, if it was a get of slash,
blog slash, then in that case,
we're going to subtract one from end.
So this is basically a way
of handling in a, very see,
like way the edge case, where?
Okay, well, what if we got slash
blog with a slash at the end.
So / blog / and / blog,
we want to treat those the same way.
This is this does that it basically says
we've ended up with end being at this,
the address of the space right here,
if there is a slash of
that space right there,
then we're just going to move it back one,
so that it ends up being Them right there.
And then basically we say, okay, cool,
if there was a space there, then just move
back one, and otherwise we're actually
going to write a slash in there.
So now what we've done is we've
essentially said, okay, cool,
either there was a slash there and
a space after it,
in which case we moved back to use
the slash that was already there, or
if there wasn't a slash there,
we're going to write one there.
Now note that this right here,
this end[0]=,
this is actually mutating
the original request string.
So we were passed in this request and you
might look at this function signature and
say like, two path takes a request,
and then it returns the path from it.
Therefore, obviously we're
not gonna touch that request.
We're just gonna look at it and
we're gonna make a nice new And
we're going to return the new path.
Well, we could do that, but this is C.
And actually the way that we're doing it
here is the most efficient way to do it.
If we wanted to make an entirely
new string and then return it
from the function, we're going to see how
to do that later, but it would be actually
significantly less efficient than if
we just said, yeah, you know what?
This request, this is my memory,
it's fair game.
I can write to it if I want to, To,
I can mutate it in place if I want to, and
I do want to, I'm going to do it that way.
So we're going to start by just looking at
how to do it in the most efficient way,
where we are actually mutating
the bytes of the original string that
we were passed in in order to get
the path that we want to return.
So essentially, what we're doing
right here is we're saying, Okay,
if we didn't already
have a slash there for.
From the original request now that
we're going to put one right there.
So we're essentially writing
this slash right in here.
And now, basically we've ended
up with regardless of whether or
not there was a slash there at
the beginning, there is a slash there now.